DM-4285 As device integrator I want a static SmartREST template for profiles with software type (#3685)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/cumulocity-2025-292-0-SmartREST-Template-set-device-profile-with-software-type.md

---

> date:

Reviewer: The date field is missing in the front matter. Please add the appropriate date

Author: Shouldn't date be blank: Beate once told me that its auto filled. https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/commit/69d1775d5d0353d19fe5bf317199e86b29111ec6

In this commit date is blank

title: New SmartREST template for setting device profiles with software type
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Improvement
product_area: Device management & connectivity
component:
  - value: component-LcWEQW5gs
    label: MQTT
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: DM-4285
version: 2025.295.0
---

> A new SmartREST template has been added. Using the template ID 531, it is now possible to set the device profile with software type. Whenever the operation has a device profile with type in one of the softwares, this template is triggered. 

Reviewer 2: The purpose of this template is not to set anything, it is to receive device profile operations with software type
```suggestion
A new static SmartREST 2 response template for device profile operations with software type has been added. This template extends the existing functionality by including the software type as the third value in the software 5-set. The template triggers independently when at least one software element in the software list contains a type, regardless of ASM support or subscription. The existing 527 template will continue to trigger alongside the new template where applicable.
```

> A new static SmartREST 2 response template with the ID 531 for device profile operations with software type has been added. This template extends the existing functionality by including the software type as the third value in the software 5-set. The template triggers independently when at least one software element in the software list contains a type, regardless of ASM support or subscription. The existing 527 template will continue to trigger alongside the new template where applicable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new static SmartREST 2 response template (ID 531) has been added for device profile operations with software type. This template extends the existing functionality by including the software type as the third value in the software 5-set. The template triggers independently when at least one software element in the software list contains a type, regardless of ASM support or subscription. The existing 527 template will continue to trigger alongside the new template where applicable.
```

ticket: DM-4285
version: 2025.295.0
---

> A new static SmartREST 2 response template for device profile operations with software type has been added. This template extends the existing functionality by including the software type as the third value in the software 5-set. The template triggers independently when at least one software element in the software list contains a type, regardless of ASM support or subscription. The existing 527 template will continue to trigger alongside the new template where applicable.

Reviewer: Please make sure the template IDs (e.g., template ID 531) are mentioned clearly
